The home of a twat with too much free time and I thought I'd start off today's video with a story because who doesn't love a
Good story. Anyway, where were we? I went to VidCon this year
I had a great time and met loads of top lads and handsome chaps and if I did have the chance to meet you
I hope I see you again
And if I didn't I will be at conventions in the future hopefully and it would be cool to see you there
I was inside one of these halls at VidCon as the roaming fees are absolutely insane
I had to rely on Wi-Fi and there were only certain places I could attain it
This hall was one of those places, but it was fairly late
The hall was fairly empty and I was messaging people to try and ascertain their location so we could go and chill then I saw
Something the doors opening I turned my attention
Lo and behold there stood Billy the fridge and there sat in his mobility scooter boogie2988
They were stopped by a fan and they told them that they were on their way to a meeting
So I decided against intercepting them myself
I am a courteous gentleman for the very few who are unaware
Boogie2988 is a youtuber known for a range of videos
He has this persona Francis, which is a satirical take on gamers
And then this other set of videos which discusses more deeper and personal topics often and even some drama
So I saw those lads I let them go. I didn't have anything to speak to them about regardless
I mean what could have possibly unfolded over a few days of banter at VidCon?
Well due to my lack of internet in places
I paid less attention to the internet and when I did it was typically at unsociable hours
So when someone asked me what I thought of the boogie situation, my initial response was wait. What?
Yes
Apparently at the time that I saw him a situation was actually at the peak of unfolding one very interesting discussion
Which was to result in an eventual apology from the man in question
I'll explain the basic situation before going into a bit more of a exploration phase the predicament that arose wasn't actually sourced at VidCon
It was sourced briefly before VidCon when boogie made an appearance on the h3 podcast, you know
The podcast hosted by h3. It's in the name
But anyhow, he was on there and they were just shooting the shit and the topic of VidCon
2017 came up an event that I will be covering in more depth later
But to summarize he hosted a panel with video game feminist Anita Sarkeesian and at the end of the panel
He said something that she objected to and this led to a confrontation and subsequent discussion
However, during the discourse about this situation on the h3 podcast boogie said something that people took objection to he made a few comments one
Notoriously about gay marriage that some felt was in poor form
This led to a lot of back and forth between boogie and these critics and eventually led him to retracting his original statement
This inevitably was followed by accusations that boogie was fenced sitting some for the comments
He made and then some for the subsequent retraction. However, this isn't really new
In fact boogie has been in this position times before even the original situation where he made a video on meeting Anita Sarkeesian
He received these same allegations. Unfortunately, you cannot please everyone
However, generally I do believe that people should stand for what they believe in and shouldn't just cater to every side as although these
Things often bank on some sort of subjectivity. There is a societal context that may make a certain choice preferable
So today what I'm going to be doing is my own little personal investigation into whether boogie can be considered a fence-sitter
Initiating with a little exploration discussion and then reapplying it to the situation in question
So we can hopefully come to a bit more of a steadfast conclusion on it
So what I did is I pulled up a selection of boogie videos over the last few years in which he covered drama some more
Contentious than others to try and decipher if he's been employing any tactics that we would be able to pin down to fence-sitting
Handering or anything else. Maybe I was pleasantly surprised
I found to be a man of strong principle just of elaborate reasoning and the proneness to being persuaded or maybe I just found it
A facade for someone who is just trying to please every demographic
I watched a few boogie videos on drama in my time, but generally I do not follow him too closely
So although some of these were revisits most of them were looked at with a fresh eye. So without further ado, let's get to it
So I watched a selection of boogie videos and I have compiled a various range of
Observations and we'll go through them in a sort of chronological order. I started by watching his response to Nicole Arbors dear fat people
I found it an appropriate video to start on as I'd recently covered Nicole Arber myself
So I was wondering what he had to say about her defining classic and generally I think out of the videos
I watched it was the best one and I think it managed to demonstrate what boogie could be at his best
Taking a concrete stance while still being considerate of those that may disagree with him and attempting to appeal to them as well
That's something that I feel is very important
So I do actually think this was a strong video to look at for example saying that obesity shouldn't be indulged
But while still having that
Reservation that there are ways to be constructive about it and help people make that change in a way different to what Nicole Arber thought
Was preferable I followed this by taking a look at his Logan Paul video and he did not necessarily say anything
I disagree within that one as well and he definitely got it out soon enough to avoid the accusation of not bringing anything to the
Conversation however, this is why I outlined one of the defining features of boogies approach to drama
He tends to approach the video assuming that the person has good intentions
But now let me say, um, I do believe his intentions were good because if you look at the end of the video
He includes the suicidal national hotline number the same one. I included down below
He gave out the message that you are not alone that there are people here that will help
I think that's all good stuff Logan. If you do stuff like that, you're gonna have me at your back
I'm gonna be standing up there for you and I'm gonna be very proud of you. That's good stuff
Generally, I think that's a fine idea and it's one that I use regularly as a base for all
We should always approach the situation under the premise of reasonable doubt that we have reason to believe that someone has good
Intentions until there is enough proof to suggest otherwise
However, the problem comes around when you set that burden of proof to heavily this generally makes you to permitting of someone and may cause
You to view them positively even when their actions suggest otherwise and they may continue to take advantage of that case in point the fine
Brother situation I think given the level of evidence their behavior provided it show that their intentions were not entirely pure to say the least
However in boogies video he gave far too much benefit of the doubt to them despite the dangerous levels of corporatism in their idea
it also revealed one of the things that I think is one of the most credible criticisms to be levied against boogie and one that
I would definitely place forward myself instead of saying this is a bad idea. It should be stopped
He said well if it goes well, it'll be great for everyone
and if it doesn't it'll be a
disaster for everyone may turn out to be a good thing and I really hope that it does but the proof of the burden lands on
The fine brothers and they have to get this right because if they don't if they don't
There's gonna be hell to pay for all of us man, and nobody wants to pay this particular bill
And that's why people are mad which is something that can be said about a lot of plans
It represents what I call the whiskey problem. What's right opinion boogie isn't an alcoholic
Yeah, shut up you pleb and give me a moment to explain it
The if I whiskey argument is the ultimate fence sitters logic
It was called that because it was originally attributed to a speech made by a lawmaker on prohibition
I'm not gonna read it out. But there's the transcript if you want to pause it and put it in your cringe compilation
Anyhow, this isn't a far cry from what boogie was alluding to in his fine bros video
And I think this follows through from his assumption. They may have had these plans with the best of intentions
But although there are many possibilities there is only one reality when these plans are put to the test
Fortunately the fine bros pulled the plug on the idea due to the initial backlash
I think that in that situation given the circumstances take a firm stance against it very strongly was the right thing to do
I think waiting to find out how it goes is a bad approach in these situations and the it could go well or badly
Is a cop-out position, especially when the projections appear to say that it could go very badly
It's important to take a stronger stance to make sure this idea is not continued with at least in its current state
Fortunately, everyone else managed to stop the fine bros though. It is food for thought
There are people on these platforms that do not have good intentions
I do not think it is a bad thing giving people chances
But there has to be a line drawn and the problem is if you are too permitting to these people you end up letting them
Get too far and then you end up being walked all over which conveniently takes us to our next point the Anita video
This upload is one of his most disliked videos. This was the original take that provoked the podcast discussion
This definitely outlined another key problem with boogies attitude that a lot of people have picked up on his
Constant focus on pleasing people now. Once again, the concept of this in moderation is perfectly fine
Nothing wrong with being empathetic towards others
However, a lot of people pointed out that he came across as far too much like he was policing himself to the point of over
Sensitivity now the story that boogie told in this instance didn't necessarily come to a bad ending
They had a discussion and it sounded fairly constructive
However, generally I don't think it was the outcome that annoyed people because this is not an outcome that would occur every time
I think it was boogies ethos the irritator some people it creates two problems in my mind
If you show yourself as someone who tries too hard to please other people
Then you leave yourself prone to having people who will make unreasonable demands and when you say no to them
They will become upset and aggravated and you will buckle
Also, if you focus too much on pleasing people it becomes hard to stand for anything in particular because plenty of people disagree on topics
and although there are plenty of reasonable people being afraid to upset the unreasonable ones will often make you overly cautious and may make you
Not really stand for anything
Now this isn't to say that it's good to be the opposite being a big old bellend doesn't necessarily work either
But Anita is a great example of someone who in spite of my many criticisms of her and her attitude
She's not afraid to make them feel uncomfortable and that is one thing that I will stand by we should not always
Focus on making people comfortable. There are definitely standards of conduct, but you can't pander too much either
Sometimes opinions will be said that make others uncomfortable and I think boogie worries too much about that
I watched a lot of boogie videos where he discusses his own
Experiences and his own mental health issues and I think his positions or drama likely arise from the fact that he has been so
Exposed in his earlier life to a torrent of negative abuse that he really wants to avoid that confrontation and I completely understand that
But I think even with that in mind
There are definitely ways you can handle drama in a more opinionated fashion and being able to stop these things while still avoiding the vitriol
Of the online hordes, I mean you're on the internet
You're gonna receive hate regards of where you stand
especially when your boogie sighs and he knows that and I think an important part is how you
Respond to hate and when the hate is a bit higher than normal
It's important not to backtrack just to appease the masses
I want to clarify that I don't think there's an issue with admitting you're wrong sometimes in fact being prepared to admit
You're wrong is an important part of any discourse
However, it's the reasons for admitting you're wrong
If you see someone's logic and you understand that point of view then you may want to change your mind
However boogie often seems to backtrack to appease the number of people who object to him rather than their own logic
He made a video in response to grade-a under a's allegations that Matthew Santoro was plagiarizing his videos now in the video
I can understand how some people may have interpreted it as a defense
But I personally found it quite a decent look at the situation
Although not all of his points were entirely relevant to the discussion that I feel many were trying to have his approach seemed fairly reasoned
However, at the time everyone was very riled up from the situation
Which is quite a common phenomenon and one that I might cover in the future what I'm going to say next
I can't necessarily verify as the video he claimed was unlisted has now been removed entirely and I had to watch a re upload
But he likely received criticism that he was being too soft on Santoro and although he was definitely being very soft
It wasn't anything out of the ordinary to him
So even when presenting his defense he presented the arguments as third person while his conclusion
Actually seemed pretty reasoned
He concluded that Santoro's was probably fair use but he could still see that it incorporated
Plagiaristic elements and that was still shitty and it had no place on his channel and he should definitely be held to account on that
The following day he made a video
Apologizing saying that he screwed up now in hindsight this may have pleased the critics initially
But a lot of the comments now say that he didn't need to make the video and I agree with them
Interpretation is a significant part of your content often how you present it will depend on how other people interpret it
However, there are always people who will interpret it from an exaggerated point of view either against them or against you
That number will increase in reactionary environments
people are provoked by drama and this emotion may affect their reasoning boogie has to pay mind that and avoid being pushed over and
That's the thing boogie often judges himself on the public response that can lead to two problems in dramatic situations where response may be
Disproportionate firstly if you side with the angry crowd in an attempt to gain popular support
Time will transpire and your anger will be shown as overblown and this will undermine your credibility as an arbitrator for the community on the other
Hand if you avoid that and you face immediate backlash
You may have the tendency to buckle and give in to the angry mob which will frame you as someone who's more focused on catering
To opinions rather than having your own generally
I think it's really easy to be caught up in crowd outrage and the community of commentary has been no stranger to that even I
On occasion have done it but long term it pays off to be rational
Which may even include having the unpopular opinion sometimes and that's something that boogie does
Occasionally seem afraid of and that might stem from the fear of receiving negative feedback
But you can't measure your opinions on the like to dislike ratio
Which is also why in spite of the problems with this video on Anita
I actually respect it for staying up in spite of the turbulent public response boogie seems to run a series of
Algorithms that create his opinions. This is something that a lot of us do subconsciously
However, we all lean on different rules different heuristics to help come to those conclusions
No one's thought process is entirely the same which is why we come to different conclusions
I think boogie's algorithms probably lean too much on those around him and their immediate emotional response
Which often leads to heavily mitigated opinions and occasional retractions rather than what may be best long term for people to hear
And I think that's the core issue
One of the greatest concerns might be the boogie always takes up the least offensive opinion
There is an algorithm that just focuses on how many people an opinion might offend and how deeply they are offended
So even in a situation like the Anita one where his video wasn't necessarily popular
Although a lot of people disagree with his point of view none of them really held it against him
Which may be something boogie's paying attention to and although his opinions aren't unreasonable in a way
I think that I and many others like
Justification for one's opinion to be more than just an attempt to please others
You cannot afford to become too reliant on your environments
This leads us to our latest situation one that showcased a lot of these problems and a few new ones
Now before I watched the video I actually checked out the tweets
Insinuating the drama it seems there were two points of interest the point that toxicity on both sides is something that should aim to be
Avoided died down pretty quickly. There was a bit of a backlash
But he dealt with it fairly competently and in all fairness if you were following this drama in real time
Then you might be mistaken to think that it had all died down after the couple days following the video release
He addressed this initial point and it was laid to rest. So what exactly revived it?
Well, eventually he tweeted about it more and more and then he got caught up in his comments about gay marriage
So after VidCon I sat down to watch the clip very conveniently uploaded
So I didn't have to trawl through the whole podcast papa bless
I could have just skipped to the specific comment. However context sake I thought I'd watch the whole thing after all
It wasn't that long and it might provide me with additional information omitted from the tweets
So I sat down and checked it out and the first six minutes passed without incident
He framed himself as a bit firmer than in the video the year before but otherwise it was fairly consistent
And then the sentence that must have lit the fuse was uttered like I always believed. Hey, we should have same-sex marriage
I love same-sex marriage. Let's do it. But the problem is we try to get it done right now
There's gonna be a huge backlash
Okay, so let's let's try to do it in 20 years in 10 years and let's see if we can avoid the backlash, right?
Let's just like slowly methodically change minds
I've always been a big fan of slowly methodically changing minds because I don't like it when gay people get killed
I don't like when somebody gets murdered for being gay. So let's not rile up the fucking crazies. Okay, let's just go slow and easy
Now this immediately struck me as off on the surface. It was just a terrible logical continuation from the previous talking point
He was saying that the way that Anita conduct herself was often too aggressive for many people to empathize with and thus made her cause
Harder to support this is a reasonable point of view when you're trying to convince someone else of your opinion
Anita's technique is seldom the best and has led to a lot of ridicule
But to follow this line of reasoning about gay marriage seems strangely bizarre and let me explain why his point was that he would have
Rather waited for more people to have been convinced that gay marriage was a good idea rather than legalize it immediately to avoid backlash
This implies a follow from argumentative reasonability, but legalization doesn't really fall under that gay marriage carries a lot of weight behind it
But it's more of an outcome rather than a technique
Very few people are going to change their mind about the legalization of something while it's being
Legalized at that point the proof of the pudding is in the eating
It also doesn't help the boogie provided no time frame for his argument
He didn't say whether this waiting of 10 or 20 years was from a position of a few decades ago or from the present day
It was a very confusing example and one that in context does not hold up by doing this
He focused on policy rather than how people argued it and even though
Criticizing someone's delivery is a perfectly reasonable thing to do because it will annihilate people
It doesn't necessarily change the validity of a greater point that might attempt to be made
I do believe that it's smart to call people out to a championing causes in a destructive fashion and have regularly said that a good
Cause does not give you any right to behave like a twat
But an argument still has a stance regardless of who the proponent is which is funny as that was literally something that boogie just acknowledged
But okay in spite of this strange contextual logic. Does the argument have any merit on its own?
So his point was that he'd want to hold off legislation to avoid giving the crazy people ammunition to go crazy
But I personally think that's a poor line of reasoning generally speaking in modern times
There is a sect of the population that will always be a bit nuts and then you have the rest of the public who are
Fairly reasonable individuals. They may be wrong from time to time and they may be more divided on certain issues
But most of them generally are open-minded and ready to hear you out
The thing about legislation is although it's fairly affirmative if that particular legalization doesn't have a huge impact on an individual
They will judge a response on how proportionately appropriate it is
So if the crazies did go crazy in response many people would simply side against them and actually the case for gay marriage would just
Be strengthened. The problem is that when we're discussing gay marriage as boogie knowledge, these nutters are merely looking for ammunition
They're not looking to be convinced the people who are reasonable are those who we should be interested in
The only real concern we should avoid is making the crazy people look reasonable
But I don't think that's something that legislation would do nor is it something that it has done
In fact gay marriage support is an all-time high probably because people realized it didn't have much impact on their lives
If someone is out killing gay people
They may be a tough cookie to convince that gay marriage is worthwhile on top of that given the passivity of the legislation
It's not like education and discourse cannot continue after it. We can still carry on discussing these things
We can still carry on going out and trying to convince people and now we also have the idea that
Actually, it's working out quite well as further proof
one of the things that I personally have found so take this with a grain of salt is that many violent extremists are not
Extremists because they are strongly politically inclined but for other reasons surrounding their personal lives
And at that point what they do is to hijack a political notion that seems most justifiable to them
I think boogie views their intentions as purely political which is a fault from my point of view
Some people have heard all the arguments and are simply just not interested in engaging on your level
There is a difference between violence and action
Which is why many of those who argued against boogie reference a famous Martin Luther King comment King was very avidly against violence
But also wanted action so comments about not engaging on their level made by boogie are not all-encompassing
And should definitely require distinction when he makes them. Otherwise, it doesn't make much sense
Still this was only half the story because although I believe his position was greatly flawed
It was a bit of a throwaway comment that may have required some discussion but not the level that it received
He then made this tweet
Which is a curious one because I think he was still trying to address his initial comments that he'd already dealt with to be honest
But the replies tended to want to lean towards this gay marriage comment the one that was floored
He got wrapped up and he just couldn't stop digging
I thought I'd like to address this point on the side note because I think it's an interesting one why some people on the left
Are considered to be more vitriolic and this generally stems from ideological differences
The left are partly driven by the idea of justice what they view as an inherently moral concept to contrast the right would respond
Well, this is what works and in a way it is justice
Whereas the more judgmental perhaps even arrogant sets of the rights tend to view their detractors as ignorant requiring education
But not necessarily action the more judgmental sets of the left tend to view their detractors as immoral and immoral people can never act in
good faith
Education would not change that and therefore they are undeserving of a public platform
the tweet that said it all off is actually quite a good follow-on from this point because someone does say that gay marriage is a
Moral issue and I've discussed this but you can see why his reply may be ill-advised
What this led to is more and more tweets and then boogie said this which once again is a sign that he's kind of
Fence-sitting because in the space of a tweet he says yes fuck all these people but still let's try and persuade them
Which I feel demonstrates boogies very flip-flop approach
He's cursing these people off while still appealing to persuading them now if a few of these people are open to persuasion
They're probably not going to listen to someone who has just openly said fuck you
Boogie essentially creates a contradiction by trying to satisfy his critic
But in effect just defeats his own original points because unless he's proposing that other people do the educating which would really undermine the principle
Of practicing what you preach. He seems confused in himself what point he's trying to make
I also think boogie attempts to be a diplomat but can also regularly come across as
Condescending such as here on top of that one other thing
I've noticed is that he has a habit of appealing to his good actions
Which although may sometimes be in fair context can push the bounds moral appeals are fine
If they are relevant if someone's accusing you of not supporting certain causes
It may be fair to show evidence of supporting those said courses
However, when the moral area becomes a bit more gray
You have to tread carefully to avoid trivializing these good actions as well as the fact that you need to ask yourself
Do you need to promote your moral credentials to respond to someone's points? It's both about necessity and relevance
I just think boogie has too many people to appeal to at points
He calls them an outrage mob which many people would probably not like to say the least and then says I hear you loud and clear
And you can definitely make those two separate points, but without qualification of who and what in these situations
It might just irritate the good actors and give more ammunition to the bad actors
Something that you said you wouldn't want to do and then you make this comment which in effect seems harmless
But I'm a cynic and it's hard not to see it as an attack on an extremely small
Minority of people to try and gain kudos with people that may have been pissed off with you
I seldom saw anyone actually say this to him throughout the situation and this all seems particularly calculated
After a few days of back and forth he just retracted and apologized but it sort of came off as a can you lay off
Please rather than actual apology
He kind of shimmied himself into a damned if you do damned if you don't situation that if he retracted
He'd seem like he's giving in to people and if he doubled down he might be going against the reasoning some people presented him
So I don't want to give him too much more stick for this
But I wish he'd focus more on himself when making these statements
When boogie does something it can often come across with other people in mind
He always manages to include others. And although sometimes it might be justified. It often sounds like he's devolving responsibility
It just means it becomes hard for him to stand for anything
I think in these situations when you focus on so many different people it becomes so easy to contradict yourself that you undermine your own
Credibility buoy clearly wants to be reasonable
but reasons should be an equally internal process rather than relying solely on the
Reaction of those around you as it means that those around you can manipulate their reaction to possibly influence you when you're a public figure
There may be people who can call that out
however, too many people don't have that opportunity and I hear boogie's stories of
Exploitation and manipulation and it does pull on your heartstrings yet
I feel his public status is equally a blessing and a curse with one side
Protecting him from that manipulation happening again with the other exposing him for that
Vulnerability and you can't just allow your environment to shape you that easily because in the wrong situation
It makes you prone to being complicit to some very bad things. I think that's what concerns people fortunately for boogie
I think the weight of those around him is so evenly spread that it won't ever lead to anything particularly damaging
But I think it's important to keep in mind. We can always do better. We can always challenge our audience
So why shouldn't we I've had the same problem as boogie in the past particularly in video form
And what I found was that I had trouble coming to conclusions due to the amount of
Influential conditions and it's easy for things to be taken out of context and used against you
So it is important to qualify your statements to be clear to make sure people understand you
You can still gain respect from a majority of people and actually taking a harder stance against these bad things that may be happening
People aren't solely concerned about opinion and the ones who are are typically the ones who will never be completely satisfied
Anyway as you'll never be fully on board with them
What matters is respect from the people who are reasonable and a lot of people are reasonable and do care about you boogie
There's a lot of people who relate to the struggles that you've been in the past and you're definitely a guiding force to a lot
Of people who are experiencing the troubles that you went through a lot of us on the internet have
Experienced that pain and anyone will tell you that that pain doesn't just go away and I feel that sometimes you let it be a part
Of you when responding to these situations and that you are greater than that making people happy is a good thing
But appeasement isn't always the best option
I think today's analysis may have outlined a few problems that hopefully can be worked on because I think as an
Inspirational figure there is a lot to like but there are also many flaws and that's something that can be worked on boogie recently made
A video lamenting that his channel might be dying and I think that may come from the fact that people have sometimes lost faith in
The more serious takes and Francis is a dated concept that he can't rely on nowadays
He needs to turn something that he can hold on to there will always be drama to react to but it's your reactions that will
Shape what kind of audience you retain?
Most things are not black and white but instead of leaving it gray you can pick apart the details that may be easier to distinguish
That's why I did today saying boogie is offensive or boogie is not offensive isn't particularly constructive because it's not that simple often
It depends but if you don't provide the conditions
Which it depends on the people can't really take anything away from what you say either
I think that's what distinguishes you from being offensive to someone who stands for something
You can still believe in it, but have reservations every sensible doctrine should in a way
But if you don't state them people just see you as someone trying too hard to appease
Individuals and you'll contradict yourself countless times because you only speak in vague language and people will eventually become detached from you as a creator
Because a creator who stands for nothing stands for no one anyhow, that's the end of the video
I would love to hear what you think about boogie to 988
I get a lot of mixed responses from a lot of my friends about what they think of him and therefore it'd be really good
To see the audience's verdict. I would also love to thank my fantastic editors
They all are budding and coming up and making great content as they are right now
And I would definitely employ you to check them out
If you have the time this video would not be here if it weren't for them
So, please send them some love also if you want to reach me, you can get me on Twitter at the right opinion fairly rudimentary
I'll also leave my Facebook link in the description below and my discord link. I will be more active in there
I promise I sell every video. I've been a naughty man. We're gonna come back stronger than ever anyhow
I don't think I really have too much else to say today apart
thank you for all the support as always it really does make a difference for me and I look forward to making these videos and
That's something truly special. So for that I thank you and I'm the right opinion and I'll see you in the next one
You